hey this is presto Walker in January
2018 lady Karren Brady posted a maths
puzzle on Twitter with the challenge to
solve it in three minutes after people
gave their replies she then posted the
correct answer and congratulated people
who got it but as a twist Piers Morgan
tried to correct her as it turned out
Piers Morgan is the one who is wrong he
used his calculator to verify and then
jokingly said he got the wrong answer
because he was unaware about bodhnath
and the order of operations
well Piers Morgan if you don't know
about Padma and the order of operations
you need to watch mind your decisions
videos you'll learn all about them and
you'll get the correct answer to all of
these puzzles the Daily Mail even
covered the ordeal and obviously I need
to cover more puzzles like this so more
people can learn about the order of
operations and how to solve these
problems so what was this puzzle she
posted it was the following mathematical
equation so you have three minutes to
figure it out when you're ready keep
watching the video for a solution
so there are two details you have to pay
attention to in the third line the
equation involves three dog bones at a
time and in the very last line there are
just two dog bones secondly the very
last line involves a multiplication so
you have to remember to multiply and you
also have to remember the order of
operations that multiplication takes
precedence before addition
so now let's solve this problem the
first equation is that three bulldogs
equal 15 so that would mean we divide by
three and we get a single Bulldog is
equal to five in the next equation we
can use the value of five for the
Bulldog and then solve for the value of
the two black and white dogs so we have
five plus two black and white dogs is
equal to 13 this means two black and
white dogs are equal to eight so one
black and white dog is equal to four
next we have the equation that a black
and white dog plus a total of six dog
bones is equal to ten so we have the
value of four for the black and white
dog we then have six dog bones and
that's equal to ten this means six dog
bones are equal to six
so a single dog bone is equal to one we
can now use the values of each of these
variables to get the correct answer so
we have the black and white dog plus two
dog bones multiplied by the value of the
Bulldog so this will be 4 plus 2
multiplied by 5 so what does that equal
well Piers Morgan incorrectly did the
quantity 4 plus 2 times 5
he just went from left to right and he
got 6 times 5 which is equal to 30 this
is the incorrect answer because you're
supposed to use the order of operations
according to PEMDAS or badness you need
to do multiplication before addition
so in that case we need to do 2 times 5
first so we have 4 plus 10 and that gets
us to the correct answer of 14 did you
figure it out
thanks for watching this video please
subscribe to my channel I make videos on
math you can catch me on my blog mind
your decisions if you like this video
you can check out my books which are
linked in the video description and you
can support me on patreon if you have a
math topic or puzzle you can email me
presh at mind your decisions calm or you
can catch me on social media either at
mind your decisions or a pressure Locker